writeup.md, before:

# Traffic Sign Recognition


**Build a Traffic Sign Recognition Project**

The goals / steps of this project are the following:
* Load the data set (see below for links to the project data set)
* Explore, summarize and visualize the data set
* Design, train and test a model architecture
* Use the model to make predictions on new images
* Analyze the softmax probabilities of the new images
* Summarize the results with a written report


## Rubric Points
### Here I will consider the [rubric points](https://review.udacity.com/#!/rubrics/481/view) individually and describe how I addressed each point in my implementation.  

---
### Writeup / README

You're reading it! and here is a link to my [project code](Traffic_Sign_Classifier.ipynb)

### Data Set Summary & Exploration

I used Numpy to calculate overview of the dataset including 

- Number of training and testing data
- Image dimension 
- Number of unique label

Here's how training and testing data look like:

    Number of training examples = 34799
    Number of testing examples = 12630
    Image data shape = (32, 32, 3)
    Number of classes = 43

Below is the snippet that generate the result.

```python
import numpy as np

n_train = y_train.shape[0]
print(y_train)
n_test = y_test.shape[0]
image_shape = X_train[0].shape
n_classes = len(np.unique(y_train))

print("Number of training examples =", n_train)
print("Number of testing examples =", n_test)
print("Image data shape =", image_shape)
print("Number of classes =", n_classes)
```
To explore this dataset further, I ploted sample images from each class and histograms of training dataset and validation set.

Here are a few sample of the result:

#### Sample of Speed-Limit sign

![sample1](img/sample1.png)

#### Sample of Children Crossing sign

![sample2](img/sample2.png)

#### Histrogram of Training Data

![training histrogram](img/train_hist.png)

#### Histrogram of Validating Data
![validating histrogram](img/valid_hist.png)


### Design and Test a Model Architecture

#### 1. Preprocessing input images.

The code for this step is in a function `distorted_input` (contained in the 10th code cell of the IPython notebook).
The preprocessing process performs these three functions in order:
 1. Randomly adjusting contrast using [tf.image.random_contrast](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/image/random_contrast)
 2. Randomly adjusting brightness using [tf.image.random_brightness](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/image/random_brightness)
 3. Normalized image mean using [tf.image.per_image_standardization](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/image/per_image_standardization)

I decided to performing the first two steps because it reflects a real-world lightning condition that can change through out the day. It also artificially increase number of training data and reduce the chance of model "remember" traffic signs. I then normalized to the image to have a zero mean and a unit norm to aid a training process.

Here is an example of an original image and an augmented image:

![alt text][image3]

The difference between the original data set and the augmented data set is the following ... 

#### 2 Model Architecture
My model consists of 4 layers of convolution layers-ELU-Pooling and 3 fully connected layers with 2 dropouts after the first two layers.

Here's my model in detail:

| Layer         		        |     Description	        					| Input Size | Output Size |
|:-----------------------------:|:---------------------------------------------:|:----------:|:-----------:| 
| Input         		        | Input Distortion      						| 32x32x3    | 32x32x3     |
| Convolution       	        | 5x5 ksize, 1x1 stride, same padding          	| 32x32x3    | 28x28x32    |
| LRN 	                        | Local response Normalization                  | 28x28x32   | 28x28x32    |
| ELU     	                    | Exponential Linear Units                    	| 28x28x32   | 28x28x32    |
| Max pooling	      	        | 5x5 ksize, 1x1 stride, valid padding          | 28x28x32   | 24x24x32    |
| Convolution       	        | 4x4 ksize 1x1 stride, same padding           	| 24x24x32   | 21x21x64    |
| ELU     	                    | Exponential Linear Units                    	| 21x21x64   | 21x21x64    |
| Average pooling	      	    | 4x4 ksize, 1x1 stride, valid padding			| 21x21x64   | 18x18x64    | 
| Convolution         	        | 3x3 ksize, 1x1 stride, same padding           | 18x18x64   | 16x16x72    |
| ELU     	                    | Exponential Linear Units                      | 18x18x64   | 16x16x72    |
| Average pooling	      	    | 3x3 ksize, 2x2 stride, valid padding  	    | 16x16x72   | 7x7x72      |
| Convolution        	        | 2x2 ksize, 1x1 stride, valid padding          | 7x7x72 	 | 6x6x72      |
| ELU     	                    | Exponential Linear Units                     	| 6x6x72     | 6x6x72      |
| Average pooling	      	    | 2x2 ksize, 2x2 stride, valid padding      	| 6x6x72     | 3x3x128     |
| Flatten                       |                                               | 3x3x128    | 1152        |
| Fully connected		        |           									| 1152       | 256         |
| RELU                          | Rectified Linear Unit                         | 256        | 256         |
| DROP OUT                      | Keep rate 0.5                                 | 256        | 256         |
| Fully connected		        |         									    | 256        | 128         |
| RELU                          | Rectified Linear Unit                         | 128        | 128         |
| DROP OUT                      | Keep rate 0.5                                 | 128        | 128         |
| Fully connected		        |            									| 128        | 43          |
| Softmax				        |         									    | 43         | 1           |

The code for my final modell is located in the 11th cell  of the IPython notebook.


 The cost function is cross entropy. The learning rate, batch size, and epoch are 0.001, 128, and 32 respectively. The choosen model was the one that has lowest error on validation data.
 
 
####3. Describe, and identify where in your code, what your final model architecture looks like including model type, layers, layer sizes, connectivity, etc.) Consider including a diagram and/or table describing the final model.

The code for my final model is located in the seventh cell of the ipython notebook. 

My final model consisted of the following layers:


 


####4. Describe how, and identify where in your code, you trained your model. The discussion can include the type of optimizer, the batch size, number of epochs and any hyperparameters such as learning rate.

The code for training the model is located in the eigth cell of the ipython notebook. 

To train the model, I used an ....

####5. Describe the approach taken for finding a solution. Include in the discussion the results on the training, validation and test sets and where in the code these were calculated. Your approach may have been an iterative process, in which case, outline the steps you took to get to the final solution and why you chose those steps. Perhaps your solution involved an already well known implementation or architecture. In this case, discuss why you think the architecture is suitable for the current problem.

The code for calculating the accuracy of the model is located in the ninth cell of the Ipython notebook.

My final model results were:
* training set accuracy of ?
* validation set accuracy of ? 
* test set accuracy of ?

If an iterative approach was chosen:
* What was the first architecture that was tried and why was it chosen?
* What were some problems with the initial architecture?
* How was the architecture adjusted and why was it adjusted? Typical adjustments could include choosing a different model architecture, adding or taking away layers (pooling, dropout, convolution, etc), using an activation function or changing the activation function. One common justification for adjusting an architecture would be due to over fitting or under fitting. A high accuracy on the training set but low accuracy on the validation set indicates over fitting; a low accuracy on both sets indicates under fitting.
* Which parameters were tuned? How were they adjusted and why?
* What are some of the important design choices and why were they chosen? For example, why might a convolution layer work well with this problem? How might a dropout layer help with creating a successful model?

If a well known architecture was chosen:
* What architecture was chosen?
* Why did you believe it would be relevant to the traffic sign application?
* How does the final model's accuracy on the training, validation and test set provide evidence that the model is working well?
 

###Test a Model on New Images

####1. Choose five German traffic signs found on the web and provide them in the report. For each image, discuss what quality or qualities might be difficult to classify.

Here are five German traffic signs that I found on the web:

![alt text][image4] ![alt text][image5] ![alt text][image6] 
![alt text][image7] ![alt text][image8]

The first image might be difficult to classify because ...

####2. Discuss the model's predictions on these new traffic signs and compare the results to predicting on the test set. Identify where in your code predictions were made. At a minimum, discuss what the predictions were, the accuracy on these new predictions, and compare the accuracy to the accuracy on the test set (OPTIONAL: Discuss the results in more detail as described in the "Stand Out Suggestions" part of the rubric).

The code for making predictions on my final model is located in the tenth cell of the Ipython notebook.

Here are the results of the prediction:

| Image			        |     Prediction	        					| 
|:---------------------:|:---------------------------------------------:| 
| Stop Sign      		| Stop sign   									| 
| U-turn     			| U-turn 										|
| Yield					| Yield											|
| 100 km/h	      		| Bumpy Road					 				|
| Slippery Road			| Slippery Road      							|


The model was able to correctly guess 4 of the 5 traffic signs, which gives an accuracy of 80%. This compares favorably to the accuracy on the test set of ...

####3. Describe how certain the model is when predicting on each of the five new images by looking at the softmax probabilities for each prediction and identify where in your code softmax probabilities were outputted. Provide the top 5 softmax probabilities for each image along with the sign type of each probability. (OPTIONAL: as described in the "Stand Out Suggestions" part of the rubric, visualizations can also be provided such as bar charts)

The code for making predictions on my final model is located in the 11th cell of the Ipython notebook.

For the first image, the model is relatively sure that this is a stop sign (probability of 0.6), and the image does contain a stop sign. The top five soft max probabilities were

| Probability         	|     Prediction	        					| 
|:---------------------:|:---------------------------------------------:| 
| .60         			| Stop sign   									| 
| .20     				| U-turn 										|
| .05					| Yield											|
| .04	      			| Bumpy Road					 				|
| .01				    | Slippery Road      							|


For the second image ...

Commit message:

finished process of getting result

writeup.md, after:

# Traffic Sign Recognition


**Build a Traffic Sign Recognition Project**

The goals / steps of this project are the following:
* Load the data set (see below for links to the project data set)
* Explore, summarize and visualize the data set
* Design, train and test a model architecture
* Use the model to make predictions on new images
* Analyze the softmax probabilities of the new images
* Summarize the results with a written report


## Rubric Points
### Here I will consider the [rubric points](https://review.udacity.com/#!/rubrics/481/view) individually and describe how I addressed each point in my implementation.  

---
### Writeup / README

You're reading it! and here is a link to my [project code](Traffic_Sign_Classifier.ipynb)

### Data Set Summary & Exploration

I used Numpy to calculate overview of the dataset including 

- Number of training and testing data
- Image dimension 
- Number of unique label

Here's how training and testing data look like:

    Number of training examples = 34799
    Number of testing examples = 12630
    Image data shape = (32, 32, 3)
    Number of classes = 43

Below is the snippet that generate the result.

```python
import numpy as np

n_train = y_train.shape[0]
print(y_train)
n_test = y_test.shape[0]
image_shape = X_train[0].shape
n_classes = len(np.unique(y_train))

print("Number of training examples =", n_train)
print("Number of testing examples =", n_test)
print("Image data shape =", image_shape)
print("Number of classes =", n_classes)
```
To explore this dataset further, I ploted sample images from each class and histograms of training dataset and validation set.

Here are a few sample of the result:

#### Sample of Speed-Limit sign

![sample1](img/sample1.png)

#### Sample of Children Crossing sign

![sample2](img/sample2.png)

#### Histrogram of Training Data

![training histrogram](img/train_hist.png)

#### Histrogram of Validating Data
![validating histrogram](img/valid_hist.png)


### Design and Test a Model Architecture

#### 1. Preprocessing input images.

The code for this step is in a function `distorted_input` (contained in the 10th code cell of the IPython notebook).
The preprocessing process performs these three functions in order:
 1. Randomly adjusting contrast using [tf.image.random_contrast](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/image/random_contrast)
 2. Randomly adjusting brightness using [tf.image.random_brightness](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/image/random_brightness)
 3. Normalized image mean using [tf.image.per_image_standardization](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/image/per_image_standardization)

I decided to performing the first two steps because it reflects a real-world lightning condition that can change through out the day. It also artificially increase number of training data and reduce the chance of model "remember" traffic signs. I then normalized to the image to have a zero mean and a unit norm to aid a training process.

Here is an example of an original image and an augmented image:

![alt text][image3]

The difference between the original data set and the augmented data set is the following ... 

#### 2 Batching & Shuffling 
Batching and shuffling is simply done using python array slicing and scikit-learn `shuffle`. The code is in 12th cell of the IPython notebook

#### 3 Model Architecture
My model consists of 4 layers of convolution layers-ELU-Pooling and 3 fully connected layers with 2 dropouts after the first two layers.

Here's my model in detail:

| Layer         		        |     Description	        					| Input Size | Output Size |
|:-----------------------------:|:---------------------------------------------:|:----------:|:-----------:| 
| Input         		        | Input Distortion      						| 32x32x3    | 32x32x3     |
| Convolution       	        | 5x5 ksize, 1x1 stride, same padding          	| 32x32x3    | 28x28x32    |
| LRN 	                        | Local response Normalization                  | 28x28x32   | 28x28x32    |
| ELU     	                    | Exponential Linear Units                    	| 28x28x32   | 28x28x32    |
| Max pooling	      	        | 5x5 ksize, 1x1 stride, valid padding          | 28x28x32   | 24x24x32    |
| Convolution       	        | 4x4 ksize 1x1 stride, same padding           	| 24x24x32   | 21x21x64    |
| ELU     	                    | Exponential Linear Units                    	| 21x21x64   | 21x21x64    |
| Average pooling	      	    | 4x4 ksize, 1x1 stride, valid padding			| 21x21x64   | 18x18x64    | 
| Convolution         	        | 3x3 ksize, 1x1 stride, same padding           | 18x18x64   | 16x16x72    |
| ELU     	                    | Exponential Linear Units                      | 18x18x64   | 16x16x72    |
| Average pooling	      	    | 3x3 ksize, 2x2 stride, valid padding  	    | 16x16x72   | 7x7x72      |
| Convolution        	        | 2x2 ksize, 1x1 stride, valid padding          | 7x7x72 	 | 6x6x72      |
| ELU     	                    | Exponential Linear Units                     	| 6x6x72     | 6x6x72      |
| Average pooling	      	    | 2x2 ksize, 2x2 stride, valid padding      	| 6x6x72     | 3x3x128     |
| Flatten                       |                                               | 3x3x128    | 1152        |
| Fully connected		        |           									| 1152       | 256         |
| RELU                          | Rectified Linear Unit                         | 256        | 256         |
| Drop Out                      | Keep rate 0.5                                 | 256        | 256         |
| Fully connected		        |         									    | 256        | 128         |
| RELU                          | Rectified Linear Unit                         | 128        | 128         |
| Drop Out                      | Keep rate 0.5                                 | 128        | 128         |
| Fully connected		        |            									| 128        | 43          |
| Softmax				        |         									    | 43         | 1           |

The code for my final model is located in the 11th cell of the IPython notebook.


#### 4 Hyper-Parameters

To train the model, I used the Cross Entropy as my cost function and [Adam Algorithm](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1412.6980v8.pdf) as the optimizer. The learning rate, batch size, and epoch are 0.001, 128, and 32 respectively. The choosen model was the one that has lowest error on validation data.

#### 5 Process of Finding solution

My final model is a result of testing and balancing parameters. I spent majority of my time try out different extreme setups to understand how different components in a network would reflect the prediction and training time. 

My first model was very shallow-- 1 Convolution layer and 1 Fully Connected. The problem of this model is that it does not have enough complexity for the task resulting in poor classifying result. So I adjusting by adding a lot more network but that result in never ending training. So I changed the goal is to find a number of layers that allows me to iterate quickly yet perform well on the testing data. After trial and error I found about 17-22 layers is a sweet spot for my hardware setup. After that, I tried out different pooling types, activating units to see how it would affect the predicting and learning speed. 

The keys take away from this experiment are:

- Combining elu/relu and max pooling offers a faster learning comparing to sigmoid and average pool
- Local Response Normalization is also adding contrast to the image and that transfers to faster learning in many cases
- Adam algorithm when use in place of Stochastic Gradient Descent shows converging result at a fast pace without messing with learning rate but notice a longer computation time

The code for training the model is located in the 12th cell of the IPython notebook. 

My final model results were:
* validation set accuracy of 0.982
* test set accuracy of 0.965

If an iterative approach was chosen:
* What was the first architecture that was tried and why was it chosen?
* What were some problems with the initial architecture?
* How was the architecture adjusted and why was it adjusted? Typical adjustments could include choosing a different model architecture, adding or taking away layers (pooling, dropout, convolution, etc), using an activation function or changing the activation function. One common justification for adjusting an architecture would be due to over fitting or under fitting. A high accuracy on the training set but low accuracy on the validation set indicates over fitting; a low accuracy on both sets indicates under fitting.
* Which parameters were tuned? How were they adjusted and why?
* What are some of the important design choices and why were they chosen? For example, why might a convolution layer work well with this problem? How might a dropout layer help with creating a successful model?

If a well known architecture was chosen:
* What architecture was chosen?
* Why did you believe it would be relevant to the traffic sign application?
* How does the final model's accuracy on the training, validation and test set provide evidence that the model is working well?
 

###Test a Model on New Images

####1. Choose five German traffic signs found on the web and provide them in the report. For each image, discuss what quality or qualities might be difficult to classify.

Here are five German traffic signs that I found on the web:

![alt text][image4] ![alt text][image5] ![alt text][image6] 
![alt text][image7] ![alt text][image8]

The first image might be difficult to classify because ...

####2. Discuss the model's predictions on these new traffic signs and compare the results to predicting on the test set. Identify where in your code predictions were made. At a minimum, discuss what the predictions were, the accuracy on these new predictions, and compare the accuracy to the accuracy on the test set (OPTIONAL: Discuss the results in more detail as described in the "Stand Out Suggestions" part of the rubric).

The code for making predictions on my final model is located in the tenth cell of the Ipython notebook.

Here are the results of the prediction:

| Image			        |     Prediction	        					| 
|:---------------------:|:---------------------------------------------:| 
| Stop Sign      		| Stop sign   									| 
| U-turn     			| U-turn 										|
| Yield					| Yield											|
| 100 km/h	      		| Bumpy Road					 				|
| Slippery Road			| Slippery Road      							|


The model was able to correctly guess 4 of the 5 traffic signs, which gives an accuracy of 80%. This compares favorably to the accuracy on the test set of ...

####3. Describe how certain the model is when predicting on each of the five new images by looking at the softmax probabilities for each prediction and identify where in your code softmax probabilities were outputted. Provide the top 5 softmax probabilities for each image along with the sign type of each probability. (OPTIONAL: as described in the "Stand Out Suggestions" part of the rubric, visualizations can also be provided such as bar charts)

The code for making predictions on my final model is located in the 11th cell of the Ipython notebook.

For the first image, the model is relatively sure that this is a stop sign (probability of 0.6), and the image does contain a stop sign. The top five soft max probabilities were

| Probability         	|     Prediction	        					| 
|:---------------------:|:---------------------------------------------:| 
| .60         			| Stop sign   									| 
| .20     				| U-turn 										|
| .05					| Yield											|
| .04	      			| Bumpy Road					 				|
| .01				    | Slippery Road      							|


For the second image ...
